the air is bone dry
and the wind is out of control you feel
like you're standing in front of a
fireplace
but you're not you're standing in your
backyard about to grill up a feast
when you suddenly see the tree shaking
uncontrollably
leaves are falling like confetti the
wind just blew your last piece of
laundry into the great unknown
you look around and everyone else is
just as confused and scared as you
are in the distance you see a red
horizon of
fire in the forest and a large vortex
touching the sky
you drop everything and make a break for
it you'll be lucky to outrun a tornado
they usually move at around 30 miles per
hour but can reach up to 70.
imagine running away from a giant
twister hurtling towards you at usain
bolt speed
the roads are crowded with people trying
to find shelter
or just get out of town you get in your
car and try to start it
but the wind knocks a sign over it
smashes your windshield
anyway a big tornado is powerful enough
to swing your entire car around
you gotta go on foot best bet head for
your buddy's house
they have a deep basement stocked with
supplies whenever a tornado flies on by
try to take cover somewhere underground
if you don't have a basement
avoid any windows and try to stay
underneath something sturdy to protect
yourself
you're running to your friend's place
everything around you is getting swept
up by the insane winds
but when you turn around you see the
tornado turning reddish
you can barely see it because of the
debris but the spinning vortex
it's well it's on fire it's a fire
tornado
these spinning flame winds can reach 140
miles per hour
and can be between 15 to 150 feet tall
and as much as 500 feet wide these
monsters occur when tons of smoke get
whirled around
so the thunderstorm starts to act like a
tornado
by the way many fire tornadoes can even
occur
in a bonfire and are called fire whirls
next time you're camping or setting up
your living room fireplace
check it out you might just spot one
spinning around in there
anyway it's getting closer and closer
throwing ash
all over it's already pretty hard for
you to see where you're going
you use your hands to wave off some of
the smoke and ash flying around your
face
but it's useless you keep sprinting as
fast as you can
until you spot a huge truck just park
right there in the middle of the road
you crawl underneath it's one of those
trucks that has like
20 wheels they look so big and heavy up
close
then you hear a creaking sound and a
humming sound
the wheels they look magical gracefully
they start
lifting off the ground as if the truck's
part of some
vegas magic act as the tornado gets
closer
the wheels rise higher better to be far
away from here when the truck smashes
back down to earth
you crawl out and keep running you find
a convenience store to take cover in
making sure not to stand too close to
the glass
you head as far into the store as you
can ready to wait this thing out
but all around you the land is burning
this fiery twister is a monster and it's
charging towards you you look out in the
distance and see another fire tornado
wrecking another part of the city in
order for a tornado to form it needs
open space
that's why many of the tornadoes you see
on the news happen in the same part of
the u.s
where there aren't many mountains and
it's nice and flat
but of course they can happen anywhere
it's not normal to see tornadoes in the
bustling downtowns of america's biggest
cities
they need a lot of open space for the
rotating vortex to happen
but today is not a normal day a tornado
forms in a supercell thunderstorm
that's when you have two different air
temperatures going at it
the vortex you see in tornadoes forms
when warm air and moisture
come in from above below is a mess
the end result the huge spiral funnel
cloud we see in every tornado movie
meteorologists can predict tornadoes
somewhat
by monitoring the amount of moisture in
the air
every second counts so keep the tv on
next time there's a storm brewing near
you
but this doesn't really apply for a fire
tornado
the winds are getting stronger and
you're feeling the heat even inside the
store
outside spiraling flame throwers are
torching
everything in their path it may be too
late to find an underground shelter
you improvise a way to help protect
yourself by hiding underneath the cash
register
and now you can't see anything there's
ash
everywhere and the windows are all
smashed thanks tornado
ash is one of the most dangerous parts
of a fire tornado
unless you're not really into breathing
or seeing
your best bet would be to stay as low as
you can to the ground
since smoke rises there might still be
just enough oxygen down there
crawling your way along will prevent you
from getting struck by any flying
objects or debris
the fires are now spreading and there's
a lot more smoke
the trees outside have caught fire and
there are glowing embers as far as the
eye can see
these embers can travel more than a mile
and can start fires on their own
now that it's really going crazy stuff
in the store
starts flying about like the smoke
wasn't bad enough
you feel like you're inside a
snack-filled erupting volcano
it's only a matter of time before the
table you're hiding under will get
pulled up into the air
the sound inside the store is intense
like sitting next to a jet engine
you can't tell if you're sweating from
the heat or from adrenaline
but suddenly you see someone at the
other end of the store
waving at you trying to tell you
something they have an
underground storage room you're saved
but getting there is going to be a real
problem
you see the table screws getting loose
getting ready to fly into the air
you find a bottle of water next to you
and rip a piece of cloth from your shirt
by using a wet cloth you're able to
filter out some of the nasty stuff in
the air to help you keep breathing
so you crawl your way out from
underneath the table
and make your way to the underground
storage room but the ground is covered
with broken
glass and there are cans and stuff
everywhere
even the cans are starting to heat up
you crawl like a sloth
trying to avoid anything pointing the
fire tornado is still out there
and it's getting even closer you finally
make it
and the clerk pulls you down the stairs
it's dark
but there's a single battery-powered
lamp to help you see
when it comes to fire tornadoes it's
best to just wait it out
most of these fire storms don't last
that long so
you relax or try to and wash your face
in a nearby sink
you wipe off all the black ash from your
face and breathe normally again
but as you get a bit more relaxed you
feel the ground shaking
everything around you starts to fall you
and the clerk
duck behind a pile of canned goods then
the tornado takes it up a notch
the store above you gets lifted up off
the ground
the only things left steel and concrete
foundations
and a couple of random columns the steel
door that's separating you from the
outside is barely holding it together
you can see the screws getting loose you
can actually see
fire enter the storage room everything
in the room gets toppled over in an
instant
the wind is even louder than before but
then
it's over those few minutes felt like
hours
you and the clerk climb out and see well
not much to be honest the convenience
store looks like it got ripped off like
a band-aid
and all around you a town you can't even
recognize anymore
the big problem with these fire
tornadoes is the fires they leave behind
they can ruin towns forests farms
and lives